---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/inform/building/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

# building
```ad-info

Link: [https://ganelson.github.io/inform/building-module/index.html](https://ganelson.github.io/inform/building-module/index.html)
Up: [[Inform7 Compiler Readers Guide]]
```

# Contents
- Chapter 1: Architecture
    [[Building Module|Building Module]] - Setting up the use of this module.
    [[Large-Scale Structure|Large-Scale Structure]] - To manage the main, connectors and architecture packages of an Inter tree, together with its major building blocks: modules and their submodules.
    [[Inter Primitives|Inter Primitives]] - The standard set of primitive invocations available in Inter code as generated by the Inform tool-chain.
    [[Hierarchy Locations|Hierarchy Locations]] - Location and naming rules for resources to be compiled in an Inter hierarchy.
    [[Location Requirements|Location Requirements]] - A way to express rules for the permitted places where inames and packages are allowed to appear in the Inter hierarchy.
    [[Translation|Translation]] - A way to express rules for how to translate names from the Inter namespace into the target language's namespace.
    [[Packaging|Packaging]] - To manage references to Inter packages which may or may not yet exist.
    [[Inter Namespace|Inter Namespace]] - To manage references to Inter symbols which may or may not yet exist.
- Chapter 2: Blueprints
    [[Inter Schemas|Inter Schemas]] - Building an inter schema, a form of annotated syntax tree.
    [[Parsing Inter Schemas|Parsing Inter Schemas]] - A simple API for turning textual code written in Inform 6 syntax into an inter schema.
    [[Tokenisation|Tokenisation]] - Turning textual code written in Inform 6 syntax into a linked list of tokens.
    [[Ramification|Ramification]] - Turning textual code written in Inform 6 syntax into an inter schema.
    [[Inform 6 Operators|Inform 6 Operators]] - Order of precedence for Inform 6 operators, regarded as their Inter primitive equivalents.
    [[Emitting Inter Schemas|Emitting Inter Schemas]] - To compile Inter code following the model in an Inter schema tree.
    [[Identifier Finders|Identifier Finders]] - Suppose we have an identifier name, say BlkValueCreate, which we think refers to some symbol in an Inter tree. Where do we look for it?
- Chapter 3: Masonry
    [[Producing Inter|Producing Inter]] - Convenient machinery for generating individual Inter instructions.
    [[Value Holsters|Value Holsters]] - Representing compilation contexts, and holding compiled values.
