---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/inform/index/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

# index
```ad-info

Link: [https://ganelson.github.io/inform/index-module/index.html](https://ganelson.github.io/inform/index-module/index.html)
Up: [[Inform7 Compiler Readers Guide]]
```

# Contents
- Chapter 1: Starting Up
    - [[Index Module|Index Module]] - Setting up the use of this module.
    - [[Index Stage|Index Stage]] - A pipeline stage for generating the index of an Inform project.
    - [[Indexing API|Indexing API]] - How the parent tool can ask for an Inter tree to be indexed.
- Chapter 2: Utilities
    - [[Index Locations|Index Locations]] - To provide routines to help build the various HTML index files, none of which are actually created in this section.
    - [[Index Interpreter|Index Interpreter]] - An index is generated by interpreting an index structure file.
    - [[Styles and Scripts|Styles and Scripts]] - CSS and Javascripts embedded into the body of index pages.
    - [[Index Utilities|Index Utilities]] - Miscellaneous utility functions for producing index content.
    - [[Index Rules|Index Rules]] - Utility functions for indexing rules, rulebooks and activities.
    - [[Lexicon (index)|Lexicon (index)]] - A lexicon for nouns, adjectives and verbs found in an Inter tree.
    - [[Faux Instances|Faux Instances]] - Some of the more complicated indexing tasks need to build data structures cross-referencing the instance packages in the Inter tree: the spatial map, in particular. For convenience, we create faux-instance objects for them, which partly correspond to the instance objects in the original compiler.
    - [[Faux Scenes|Faux Scenes]] - Creating a simple graph of scenes, ends and connectors.
- Chapter 3: Elements
    - [[The Periodic Table|The Periodic Table]] - The index is divided up into 'elements'.
    - [[Alphabetic Element|Alphabetic Element]] - To write the Alphabetic actions element (A2) in the index.
    - [[Arithmetic Element|Arithmetic Element]] - To write the Arithmetic element (Ar) in the index.
    - [[Behaviour Element|Behaviour Element]] - To write the Behaviour element (Bh) in the index.
    - [[Card Element|Card Element]] - To write the Library Card element (Cd) in the index.
    - [[Chart Element|Chart Element]] - To write the Chart element (Ch) in the index.
    - [[Commands Element|Commands Element]] - To write the Commands element (Cm) in the index.
    - [[Contents Element|Contents Element]] - To write the Contents element (C) in the index.
    - [[Events Element|Events Element]] - To write the Events element (Ev) in the index.
    - [[Extras Element|Extras Element]] - To write the Extras element (Xt) in the index.
    - [[Figures Element|Figures Element]] - To write the Figures element (Fi) in the index.
    - [[Gazetteer Element|Gazetteer Element]] - To write the Gazetteer element (Gz) in the index.
    - [[Grouped Element|Grouped Element]] - To write the Grouped actions element (A1) in the index, and also the detailed per-action pages linked from it.
    - [[Innards Element|Innards Element]] - To write the Innards element (In) in the index.
    - [[Lexicon Element|Lexicon Element]] - To write the Lexicon element (Lx) in the index.
    - [[Map Element|Map Element]] - To write the Map element (Mp) in the index.
    - [[Phrasebook Element|Phrasebook Element]] - To write the Phrasebook element (Pb) in the index.
    - [[Plot Element|Plot Element]] - To write the Plot element (Pl) in the index.
    - [[Relations Element|Relations Element]] - To write the Relations element (Rl) in the index.
    - [[Rules for Scenes Element|Rules for Scenes Element]] - To write the Rules for Scenes element (RS) in the index.
    - [[Standards Element|Standards Element]] - To write the Standards element (St) in the index.
    - [[Tables Element|Tables Element]] - To write the Tables element (Tb) in the index.
    - [[Tokens Element|Tokens Element]] - To write the Tokens element (To) in the index.
    - [[Values Element|Values Element]] - To write the Values element (Vl) in the index.
    - [[Verbs Element|Verbs Element]] - To write the Verbs element (Vb) in the index.
- Chapter 4: Spatial Mapping
    - [[Map Configuration|Map Configuration]] - To manage configuration parameters for the EPS and HTML maps.
    - [[Spatial Geometry|Spatial Geometry]] - Simple mathematical functions for dealing with vectors and cuboids in a three-dimensional integer lattice.
    - [[Spatial Map|Spatial Map]] - To fit the map of the rooms in the game into a cubical grid, preserving distances and angles where possible, and so to give each room approximate coordinate locations.
    - [[Render HTML Map|Render HTML Map]] - To render the spatial map of rooms as HTML.
    - [[Render EPS Map|Render EPS Map]] - To render the spatial map of rooms as an EPS (Encapsulated PostScript) file.
