---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/inform/pipeline/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

# pipeline
```ad-info

Link: [https://ganelson.github.io/inform/pipeline-module/index.html](https://ganelson.github.io/inform/pipeline-module/index.html)
Up: [[Inform7 Compiler Readers Guide]]
```

# Contents
- Chapter 1: Setting Up
    - [[Pipeline Module|Pipeline Module]] - Setting up the use of this module.
- Chapter 2: Pipelines
    - [[Parsing Pipelines|Parsing Pipelines]] - To parse pipelines from text files.
    - [[Running Pipelines|Running Pipelines]] - To run through pipelines of code generation stages.
    - [[Pipeline Errors|Pipeline Errors]] - To issue problem messages when parsing or running erroneous pipelines.
    - [[New Stage|New Stage]] - This stage takes an empty tree and equips it with just the absolute basics, so that it is ready to have substantive material added at a later stage.
    - [[Read Move Stop Stages|Read Move Stop Stages]] - Four simple pipeline stages.
- Chapter 3: Assimilation
    - [[Parsing Stages|Parsing Stages]] - Two stages which accept raw I6-syntax material in the parse tree, either from insertions made using Inform 7's low-level features, or after reading the source code for a kit.
    - [[Resolve Conditional Compilation Stage|Resolve Conditional Compilation Stage]] - To generate the initial state of storage for variables.
    - [[Compile Splats Stage|Compile Splats Stage]] - To replace each splat node with a sequence of pure Inter nodes having the same meaning, thus purging the tree of all raw I6 syntax entirely.
- Chapter 4: Linking
    - [[Load Binary Kits Stage|Load Binary Kits Stage]] - Reading other Inter trees as binary files, and attaching them at given points in the main Inter tree.
    - [[Shorten Wiring Stage|Shorten Wiring Stage]] - To catch missing resources with suitable errors, to remove plugs and sockets as no longer necessary, and to shorten wiring as much as possible.
    - [[Detect Indirect Calls Stage|Detect Indirect Calls Stage]] - To handle function calls made to functions identified by symbols which turn out, during linking, to be variables rather than constants.
    - [[Make Identifiers Unique Stage|Make Identifiers Unique Stage]]- To make sure certain symbol names translate into globally unique target symbols.
    - [[Reconcile Verbs Stage|Reconcile Verbs Stage]] - To reconcile clashes between assimilated and originally generated verbs.
    - [[The Standard Kits|The Standard Kits]] - The layout and naming conventions for functions and other resources provided by the standard kits, and which are called or accessed from code generated by Inter or by the Inform 7 compiler.
- Chapter 5: Synoptic Module
    - [[Make Synoptic Module Stage|Make Synoptic Module Stage]] - Creating a top-level module of synoptic resources.
    - [[Synoptic Hierarchy|Synoptic Hierarchy]] - The layout and naming conventions for the contents of the main/synoptic module.
    - [[Synoptic Utilities|Synoptic Utilities]] - Utility functions for generating the code in the synoptic module.
    - [[Extensions|Extensions]] - To renumber the extensions and construct suitable functions and arrays.
    - [[Literal Text|Literal Text]] - To alphabetise literal texts, deduplicate them, and store a canonical set in the synoptic/texts submodule.
    - [[Responses (pipeline)|Responses (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/responses submodule.
    - [[Rules (pipeline)|Rules (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/rules and main/synoptic/rulebooks submodules.
    - [[Activities (pipeline)|Activities (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/activities submodule.
    - [[Actions (pipeline)|Actions (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/actions submodule.
    - [[Instances (pipeline)|Instances (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/instances submodule.
    - [[Dialogue (pipeline)|Dialogue (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/dialogue submodule.
    - [[Kinds (pipeline)|Kinds (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/kinds submodule.
    - [[Properties (pipeline)|Properties (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/properties submodule.
    - [[Relations (pipeline)|Relations (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/relations submodule.
    - [[Tables (pipeline)|Tables (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/tables submodule.
    - [[Chronology (pipeline)|Chronology (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/chronology submodule.
    - [[Scenes (pipeline)|Scenes (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/scenes submodule.
    - [[Multimedia (pipeline)|Multimedia (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/multimedia submodule.
    - [[Use Options (pipeline)|Use Options (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/use_options submodule.
    - [[Verbs (pipeline)|Verbs (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/verbs submodule.
    - [[Tests (pipeline)|Tests (pipeline)]] - To compile the main/synoptic/tests submodule.
Chapter 6: Optimisation
    - [[Eliminate Redundant Matter Stage|Eliminate Redundant Matter Stage]] - To remove definitions which are never used: for example, functions which are never called or referred to.
    - [[Eliminate Redundant Labels Stage|Eliminate Redundant Labels Stage]] - To remove labels which are defined but never jumped to.
    - [[Eliminate Redundant Operations Stage|Eliminate Redundant Operations Stage]] - To remove logical or arithmetic operations which neither do anything, nor have side-effects.
